---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---
{% include image.html url="/images/pic_low2.jpg" caption="Badrul Arefin" width=300 align="right" %}

For the last 10+ years, my research revolves around different areas namely molecular and developmental biology, genetics, innate immunity and cancer. Fortunately, I got the opportunity to be trained in different leading labs in Sweden where 3 of my supervisors were awarded <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G%C3%B6ran_Gustafsson_Prize">Göran Gustafsson Prize</a> in molecular biology from the <a href="https://kva.se/sv/priser/goran-gustafssonprisen">Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences </a> for their outstanding scientific output. Therefore, I consider my training is rigorous enough to push the science forward. In addition, I belive I am a curiocity-driven person and very passionate about research. I really love working in the lab. Along the way, I got 10+ publications, among them I was the 1st author for 6 original research articles, which helped me to sustain in academic research so far. Therefore I am very much thankful to my supervisors and the restective labs. Without their incredible contribution, I would be be nowhere in science!

Please follow the link if you would like more about my research in plain english.
<a href="CV/research in plain english">About my research in plain english</a>
My full time research started in Sweden in the summer of 2009, when I got a chance to develop a new tool for chromosomal integration into the yeast S. cerevisiae. We all know by now that our life (multicellular organisms) begins from a single cell. So I was puzzled how a single cell turns into a multicellular organism that led me into development biology. My first work in developmental biology was focused in the very early stage of the Drosophila embryo which is within several hours after fertifilization. One of the questions was how the initial genes are expressed. Afterwards, my rsearch was centered around how our respiratory system (trachea) was formed during embryogenesis. Fot that, we used Drosophila again, a simple and excellent model organism to answer that question and we employed different molecular and genetic tools to trace its biology. Of note, that research spans overs mid-late embryogenesis. 

My PhD work was shifted towards host-pathogen interactions and we utilized Drosophila-nematode as model organisms. One of the underlying reasons for using these model-organisms was, host-pathogen  interactions  with  bacteria  and  fungi were  relatively  well  characterized  in Drosophila compared  to  other  pathogens. However,  how  other  pathogens, for  instance,  entomopathogenic  nematodes  interact with  the  host  (Drosophila) has  yet  to  be  elucidated. Entomopathogenic  nematodes (EPN)  are  parasitic  worms, which  can  infect  insects  and  kill  them. Recent  studies estimate  that  around  3  billion  people  are  infected  by  nematodes, causing  diseases leading to death. Besides human health, nematodes have devastating consequences on livestock and in agriculture. Therefore, we exploited these model organisms to the fullest to understand their complex interactions, hence tried to advance our undersatnding during infection. 

During my 1st postdoc, I was involved in a set of studies that take a comprehensive molecular and genetic approaches aimed at understanding the central nervous system (CNS) formation during embryogenesis. This study focuses on the early embryonic stage when the neural stem cells are born. However, there were some missing knowledge of how they are born. Proper neural stem cells formation is essential for the central nervous system (CNS) development. We provided evidence for a co-ordinated team of different players (genes) that play a role for making the neural stem cells. We discovered two more genes in this process as missing pro-neural genes.<br>

<h2>Bio</h2>
<ul>
<li> I was born and raised in Bangladesh. I moved to Sweden in Aug. 2008 to pursue to master studies in Biotechnology. Normally I try to run 2-3 times a week or do some cross-training exercises to stay fit. In my spare time, I spend time reading newspaper and watching fun stuffs in the internet.
